---
title: Liberalia
permalink: /liberalia/
date: 2016/03/17
---

On the 17th of March 2016, I started weening myself of services and protecting  
my computing to a better extent while also moving myself to a more easily  
accessible computer (in terms of purchase and power).  
  
Most of my computing leading up to this event was done on a Google Chromebook  
Pixel 2 LS. I decided to put this machine in a box and only take it out when  
struggle had occurred for too long, hoping not to do it at all.   
  
For reference, the Pixel was a 2.4GHz i7 Intel Processor with 16GB of RAM and  
64GB Flash storage, 2560x1700 IPS Display with touch screen. A 128GB SDXC card  
was on hand in case of needing extra storage but wasn't used much. 2x USB-A  
3.0, 1x SDXC slot, 2x USB-C 3.1 Gen 1, a 3.5mm Audio Jack, Wifi-agbn, Bluetooth  
4.0 LE, Web cam, Microphone, Clicet keyboard (back-lit) and glass trackpad. On  
this machine my majority of use was using Chrome OS with an Ubuntu Based  
Crouton, i3wm was my WM.    
  
The computer I moved to was a Think Pad X200, 2.4GHz Core2Duo, 8GB RAM, 128GB  
SSD, 1200x800 TN Display, 2x USB-A 2.0, 1x Express-card54, 3x mini PCI-e,  
10/100/1000 Mbps Ethernet, Microphone jack, Headphone jack, Trackpoint (with 3  
mouse buttons), Membrane/Cup keyboard, Preinstalled Wifi-abg card, Bluetooth,  
Fingerprint reader, Web cam, Microphone, Networking kill-switch. On this  
machine, I installed SubgraphOS, a privacy aware distribution of Debian, i3wm  
as my WM again.   
  
Throughout this time I will be testing and using both free and non-free  
software, including Games and programming frameworks taught on my university  
degree course. Along side this I will keep a video diary documenting various  
parts where I was surprised or identified something of interest. I plan to do  
this from a range of perspectives but with the intention of the videos being  
accessible, all of the editing will be done on the ThinkPad.   

I will go into more detail with my computing in future posts.  
